https://pethelpful.com/cats/Training-Your-Cat-to-Wood-Pellet-Litter


Feline Pine can be bought at pet stores and some Walmart or Target stores for about $15 for twenty pounds You will need an extra litter box. If you transition your cats to pellet litters too quickly and they don’t like the texture of the litter and have no alternative to the litter, they may decide to create their own litter box in a location of their choosing.You can start by placing bout 1/2 inch of pellets (this is all you need, ever!) into the new litter box and placing the new box next to the old one.If the cats start using that one regularly, great! You’re a million miles ahead already. Start transitioning their other litter box as mentioned below.If your cats won’t use it, put the litter away and start transitioning the new box as mentioned below. Leave their regular litter in the old box.

Fill the transitioning box with regular litter, a few scoops of dirty litter from the other box, and add one cup of wood litter. Mix it with a litter scoop.Each day, scoop out a bit of litter and add just a tiny bit more of the wood litter. A good amount to add is only about 1/4 to 1/2 a cup. Most cats need a LOT of transition time, and rushing it can push things back a lot.After a while, if you see the cats are using the litter box regularly and the litter is mostly wood, you can try switching it to 100% wood pellets.Observe carefully. If the cats backslide or stop using the new litter box, go back a few steps and add the regular litter back to the box. Start over until the cats are using the wood litter reliably.

I cannot stress enough how important it is to go slowly with adult cats. Kittens may transition easily, but adult cats tend to be very set in their ways.Some cats, especially declawed ones, may never want to use this sort of litter. Declawed cats may feel pain in their paws on pellets. An alternative for cats that hate this is to use Feline Pine’s pine clumping litter.Keep the box smelling its best by removing poop daily and stirring the litter to keep it dry.Change the box completely when most of the pellets have dissolved into powder.There are many alternative litters on the market. If your cats dislike pellets, look around for different types.
